As promised in the previous question, we are discussing men in this section.
The main question is when do you get men as output?
The category of this question is JavaScript language, and there are two related questions.
Men is a global property representing not a number.
You normally get this error when there is a non numerical value.
Our operation performed.
Let's run a very small sample code.
To check this I will declare a variable which has a numeric value and declaring another variable which
has a string say for example value.
Now if I try to perform a mathematical that is an arithmetic operation here into B now it is a numeric
value, whereas B is actually a string.
So this operation cannot be performed in such cases.
JavaScript will return not a number that is none.
Let's run this code and see what happens.
You see that the output is net because a string and a number cannot perform mathematical operations.
It has returned then as output.
This, in fact, is an error.
How will you make sure that you always have validation on such values by using a matter called is Nan.
Is Nan is a function which returns true or false depending on the expression?
Let's add is then in this particular example, I'll see if.
Is nine, which is a function and I'll give the expression into B now I'm comparing it whether it is
true or false.
If I say false.
That means is nine is not a number is false.
That means it's a number.
Now, instead of writing this way, we can also write.
Like this.
It is one and the same thing.
These are the tricks of JavaScript programming language, right?
Because if you want to say if is than let's say what our expression is, that is equal to true.
So instead of writing this, you can simply say nothing is nan expression.
That means if it is true, then you proceed further.
Similarly, when you want to negate this condition, you can say this is equivalent to is nan equals
to false.
So let's try this syntax rather than saying equal to end false.
So if it is false, I just want to display.
That it's a valid number.
Else.
I will say invalid.
I'm saving this and running the code again at the moment.
Certainly it is invalid.
Now if I change the value here in B, let's say four and then we run it.
So it says that it is a valid number.
So is it then gives you this facility to check whether it is returning nine or it is a valid number?
Ideally, if you want to check a value is number or not.
Then you have the global property called nine.
It means you can write it into B.
That is the expression.
Is equal to Nan because Nan is a global property.
But this is not a very preferable way.
We don't write this.
The reason is Nan does not match with itself.
Also, it's a unique value.
Nan returns a unique value each time you refer it.
But it is a nan just to check that practically.
Let me write this.
I'll say console.log instead of a thing to be.
I'll change it to is nan is equal to Nan or not?
Right.
Let's try this.
You see, it returns false.
That means it does not match with itself all the times.
So better not use this in to be is equal to nan.
Right.
This is not a very preferable way.
You should always use is Nan instead.
Sometimes we prefer to write is finite method which not only checks for Nan but also checks for positive
infinity and negative infinity as well.
In short, is finite method checks whether the value is a regular number or not.
Let's see this practically.
We will again keep this b is equal to string that is value.
And now we are going to try a few console.log to see this.
Also console.log is finite and to be let's try a valid value find to four.
I will say max value into four.
So this should return the infinity and even infinity itself.
I'll clear the screen and run the code here.
It returns false because and B will return then.
So it is false.
I say fine too for this returns true.
So this is a regular number which is returned by it.
When you see a situation where there is an infinite return like number dot maxwell, you hear that returns
false.
And of course infinity.
Anyway, returns false.
So is finite is one of the function which can be used, which checks for man and the infinity thing.
This does not mean you use infinite everywhere.
It's just that if you expect certain values might return from a function, then you use it.
Now let's discuss the relative questions of this topic.
The first question is what will be the output of the below statement?
So now here I'm using nan equals to Nan.
Remember, either I you do equal to sign or even three equal to sign.
That doesn't matter because strict equality or non strict equality.
Either way, it is not going to match with Nan.
So Nan doesn't match with itself because there is always a unique value for each nan.
That's why this will return false.
Even though we say nan equals to nan is going to return false.
The second question is what is the difference between is then and is finite matter?
So we have already seen that is then is just going to check whether the value is not a number or not
and is finite checks for man as well as infinity values also.